---
title:ONE
author:John Scalzi
tags:
- 翻译
- 科幻
---

Let me tell you of the worlds I've left behind.

Earth you know; everyone knows it. 
It's the birthplace of humanity, although at this point not many consider it 
our "home" planet --- Phoenix has had that job since the Colonial Union was
created and become the guiding force for expanding and protecting our race in
the universe. But you never forget where you come from.

Being from Earth in this universe is like being a small-town kid who
gets on the bus, goes to the big city and spends his entire afternoon
gawking at all the tall building. Then he gets mugged from the crime
of marveling at this strange new world, which has such things in it,
because the things in it don't have much time or sympathy for the
new ked in town, and they're happy to kill him for what he's got in
suitcase. The small-town kid learns this fast, because he can't go 
home again.

I spent seventy-five years on Earth, living mostly in the same 
Ohio town and sharing most of that life with the same woman.
She died and stayed behind. I lived and I left.

------------------------------------

The next world is metaphorical. The Colonial Defense Forces took me
off Earth and kept the parts of me they wanted: my consciousness,
and some small part of my DNA. From the latter they built me a new 
body, which was young and quick and strong and beautiful and only
partially human. The stuffed my consciousness inside of it, and gave
me not nearly enought time to glory in my second youth. Then they 
took this beautiful body that was now me and spent the next serveral
years actively trying to get it killed by thowing me at every hostile
alien race they could.

There were a lot of those. The universe is vast, but the number of 
world suitable for human life is surprisingly small, and as it 
happens space is filled with numberous other intelligent species
who want the same worlds we do. Very few of these species, it seems,
art into the concept of sharing; we're certainly not. We all fight,
and the worlds we can inhabit swap back and forth between us until
one or another gets a grip on it so tight we can't be pried off.
Over a couple of centuries, we humans have mananged this trick
on several dozen worlds, and failed this trick on dozens more. 
None of this has made us very many friends.

I spent six years in this world. I fought and I nearly died, more
then once. I had friends, most of whom died but some of whom I saved.
I met a woman who was achingly like the one I shared my life with
on Earth, but who was nevertheless entirely her own person. I 
defended the Colonial Union, and in doing so I believed I was keeping
humanity alive in the universe.

At the end of it the Colonial Defense Forces took the part of me that 
had always been me and stuffed it into a third and final body. This
body was young, but not nearly as quick and strong. It was, after all,
only human. But this body would not be asked to fight and die. I missed
being as strong as a cartoon superhero. I didn't miss every alien
creature I met trying very hard to kill me. It was a fair trade.



















