---
title: CHAPTER 11: Remote Repositories
tags:
- 翻译
- git
---

So far, you’ve worked almost entirely within one, local repository. Now it’s time to explore the much-lauded distributed features of Git and learn how to collaborate with other developers via shared repositories.

Working with multiple and remote repositories adds a few new terms to the Git vernacular.

A *clone* is a copy of a repository. A clone contains all the objects from the original; as a result, each clone is an independent and autonomous repository and a true, symmetric peer of the original. A clone allows each developer to work locally and independently without centralization, polls, or locks. Ultimately, it’s cloning that allows Git to scale to projects that are large and dispersed.

Essentially, separate repositories are useful:

* Whenever a developer works autonomously.
* Whenever developers are separated by a wide area network. A cluster of developers in the same location may share a local repository to amass localized changes.
* Whenever a project is expected to diverge significantly along separate development paths. Although the regular branching and merging mechanism demonstrated in previous chapters can handle any amount of separate development, the resulting complexity may become more trouble than it’s worth. Instead, separate develop- ment paths can use separate repositories, to be merged again whenever appropriate.

Cloning a repository is just the first step in sharing code. You must also relate one repository to another to establish paths for data exchange. Git establishes these repo- sitory connections through remotes.

A *remote* is a reference, or handle, to another repository. You use a remote as a short- hand name for an otherwise lengthy and complicated Git URL. You can define any number of remotes in a repository, thus creating elaborate networks of repository sharing.

Once a remote is established, Git can transfer data from one repository to another using either a push or a pull model. For example, it’s common practice to occasionally transfer data from an original repository to its clone in order to keep the clone in sync. You can also create a remote to transfer data from the clone to its original or configure the two to exchange information bidirectionally.

To keep track of data from other repositories, Git uses tracking branches. Each tracking branch in your repository is a local branch that serves as a proxy for a specific branch in a remote repository.

Finally, you can provide your repository to others. Git generally refers to this as *publishing a repository* and provides several techniques for doing so.

This chapter presents examples and techniques to share, track, and obtain data across multiple repositories.

# Repository Concepts

## Bare and Development Repositories

A Git repository is either a bare or a development (nonbare) repository.

A development repository is used for normal, daily development. It maintains the no- tion of a current branch and provides a checked-out copy of the current branch in a working directory. All of the repositories mentioned in the book so far have been de- velopment repositories.

In contrast, a bare repository has no working directory and shouldn’t be used for normal development. A bare repository has no notion of a checked-out branch, either. In other words, you shouldn’t make direct commits to a bare repository.

A bare repository might seem to be of little use, but its role is crucial to serve as an authoritative basis for collaborative development. Other developers **clone** and **fetch** from the bare repository and push updates to it.

If you issue git clone with the `--bare` option, Git creates a bare repository; otherwise, a development repository is created.

By default, Git enables a *reflog* (a record of changes to refs) on development repositories but not on bare repositories. This again anticipates that development will take place in the former and not in the latter. By the same reasoning, no remotes are created in a bare repository.

If you set up a repository into which developers push changes, it should be bare. In effect, this is a special case of the more general best practice that a published repository should be bare.

























